
## 0
1. passive threat:
	- Traffic analysis
2. The so-called CIA triad consists of:
	- Confidentiality
	- Integrity
	- Availability
3. A digital signature cannot be used to provide
	- Confidentiality
4. In a known plaintext attack, the attacker:
	- knows some plaintext and its corresponding ciphertext.
5. Encryption with a simple **substitution** cipher:
	- permutes the plaintext **alphabet**.
6. According to Kerckhoff's principle, the only thing unknown to the attacker of an encryption scheme is:
	- the key.
7. Simple random substitution cipher on a 27-letter alphabet can be easily broken using:
	- statistical analysis;
8. The number of possible keys for a simple transposition cipher with an alphabet of 26 characters and block length 10 is:
	- 10!
9. The Vigenere cipher is a polyalphabetic substitution cipher where
	- each substitution is a Caesar cipher.
10. The Enigma rotor machine is an example of:
	- a polyalphabatic substitution cipher.

## 1

1. A defining property of an iterated cipher is:
	- the encryption process can be split into r similar rounds.
2. The AES cipher:
	- has a 128 bit block size. (AES has fixed block size 128bit, key size: 128, 192, 256 bits.)
3. Double encryption with DES:
	- is vulnerable to a meet-in-the-middle attack.
4. The main problem today with the original DES cipher is that:
	- the key length is too short.
5. An example of a cryptosystem which uses a substitution permutation network is:
	- the Advanced Encryption Standard AES.
6. The Euclidean algorithm can help to:
	- find modular inverses.
7. A difference between a group and a field is that: 
	- a field has two arithmetic operations but a group has one.
8. Zn is cyclic if:
	- n is prime.
9. 15^(-1)  mod 22 is:
	- 3

##2
1. A message authentication code (MAC) is used to provide:
	- message integrity;

2. An advantage of CTR mode over CBC mode for block ciphers is:
	- CTR mode allows parallel encryption while CBC does not;

3. Padding may be required in CBC mode because:
	- the plaintext may not fill an exact number of blocks;

4. ECB mode of operation is unsuitable for bulk encryption because
	- it does not include any random or varying input

5. When a MAC tag is received, in order to check data integrity the recipient needs to:
	- recompute the tag

6. A synchronous stream cipher
	- requires the receiver to be synchronised (remain in step) with the sender throughout the decrypting process

7. In a binary synchronous stream cipher
	- the keystreams generated by the sender and receiver are the same

8. The main disadvantage of the one time pad in practice is
	- the key needs to be as long as the message making key management difficult

9. The A5/1 stream cipher, designed for GSM phones
	- uses three LFSRs and combines their output

10. The RC4 cipher
	- has known weaknesses and is widely deprecated for new systems

##3
1. The complexity of a problem:
	- is no greater than the complexity of any algorithm which solves that problem;

2. In general it is possible to construct a public key encryption scheme from a trapdoor one-way function where:
	- the trapdoor is the decryption key.

3. With regard to the Fermat test for testing whether a number n is prime:
	- if the test outputs "composite" then n is definitely composite;

4. In the RSA cryptosystem the equation connecting the public exponent e and the private exponent d is:
	- ed = 1 mod Φ(n).

5. When generating the keys for RSA it is popular:
	- to choose e=2^16 + 1 = 65536 + 1;

6. OAEP is: (OAEP: Optimal Asymmetric Encryption Padding)
	- a randomised padding scheme suitable for preparing messages prior to use of RSA;

7. The Chinese remainder theorem can be used with RSA to
	- speed up decryption;

8. If n is a Carmichael number then:
	- n is composite;

9. For numbers of a similar size, and for algorithms we currently know about:
	- factorising numbers is harder than finding prime numbers;

10. all the following functions f(m) is it true that f(m) = O(m^2)
	- f(m) = m;
	- f(m) = 100m;
	- f(m) = 100m^2 + 100m + 100;

##quiz 4
1. Let g be a generator for the integers modulo p. The discrete logarithm problem is:
	- given y, find x with y = g^x mod p;

2. With regard to the security of the Diffie-Hellman protocol we know that:
	- an attacker who can find discrete logarithms can break the protocol.

3. A major limitation of the basic Diffie-Hellman protocol is:
	- the messages are not authenticated;

4. In the Elgamal cryptosystem:
	- the ciphertext is twice the size of the plaintext;

5. The best algorithm currently known to solve the elliptic curve discrete logarithm:
	- is exponential in the length of the parameters.

6. A Diffie-Hellman key is ephemeral if:
	- it is used in only one run of the protocol;

7. An elliptic curve point is:
	- a pair of elements (x,y) in some field.

8. If full-scale quantum computers become available then:
	1. the RSA cryptosystem will be broken;
	2. the Diffie-Hellman protocol will be broken;
	3. the ElGamal encryption algorithm will be broken;
	
9. For the same level of security we should choose:
	- the key size for RSA to be longer than the key size for elliptic curve based schemes;

10. One difference between ElGamal encryption and RSA encryption is that:
	- the ElGamal encryption process requires two exponentiations while RSA encryption requires only one;

## 5 

1. A property of digital signatures not shared with physical (hand write) signatures is that:
	- a digital signature depends on the message to be signed.

2. The outpout of a signature verification equation is:
	- a boolean value.

3. When public key cryptography is used to provide digital signatures:
	- The private key of the signer is required in order to generate signature.

4. A digital certificate includes:
	- a signature on an entity's public key and identity;

5. A browser extended validation certificate gives assurance that:
	- the binding between the public key and the certificate owner has been checked at a specific level.

6. According to the birthday paradox, if we have choose elements randomly from a set of M values then a collision will occur with probability 0.5 after approximately:
	- √M elements have been chosen.

7. the SHA family of algorithms includes members which have hash output sizes of:
	- 224 bits, 256 bits, 384 bits and 512 bits.

8. HMAC is:
	- a MAC construction based on any iterated hash function.

9. GCM (Galois Counter Mode) is defined using:
	- a block cipher in counter (**CTR**) mode and a special hash function GHASH.

10. When combining an encryption scheme and a MAC algorithm, the best way to achieve security is to :
	- encrypt first to get ciphertext C,
	- then apply the MAC to C to obtain a tag T,
	- and send both C and T.

## 6

1. The TLS sub-protocol concerned with providing confidentiality and integrity to application data is called:
	- the record protocol.

2. In the Kerberos system one role of the authentication server (AS) is to:
	- issue to the client a ticket which can be used with the ticket granting serivce (TGS).

3. Which of these statements about compression in the TLS record protocol is true:
	- Compression can lead to attacks like the CRIME attack.

4. When TLS uses authenticated encryption modes, such as CCM or GCM, the additional authenticated data includes:
	- the sequence number and header data.

5. Forward secrecy is provided in TLS as long as the handshake protocol uses:
	- ephemeral Diffie-Hellman.

6. Popular web browsers typically support:
	- multiple TLS versions.

7. Negotiation of TLS ciphersuites in the handshake uses:
	- the client and server hello message.

8. the BEAST attack on TLS applies to ciphersuites which use:
	- block ciphers in CBC mode.

9. forward secrecy is the property that:
	- if a user's long term key becomes known to an attacker, session key established earlier are not compromised.

10. When defining the security of a key estabishment protocol we usually assume that an attacker can:
	- obtain session keys from earlier runs of the protocol.


